Quiz: Lesson 3

1.  What's the difference between rendering and redirecting? What's the impact with regards to instance variables, view templates?

Rendering displays a view template whereas redirecting sends a new request to the browser based on the route path provided.  Instance variables are used in the former but not the latter.

2.  If I need to display a message on the view template, and I'm redirecting, what's the easiest way to accomplish this?

flash

3.  If I need to display a message on the view template, and I'm rendering, what's the easiest way to accomplish this?

flash.now

4.  Explain how we should save passwords to the database.

has_secure_password method in model.

password_digest column in database.

5.  What should we do if we have a method that is used in both controllers and views?

Put it in application_controller.rb.  To have the method work in views, list it as helper_method :a_method.

6.  What is memoization? How is it a performance optimization?

Memoization allows us to enhance performance because we are caching the result of a method call instead of calling it every single time.
This is a good technique whenever the result is the same every time. Instead of running the method and hitting the database every time per request, we can store the first result as an instance variable.
By doing so, it will initially hit the database only once to get the stored valued and will optimize our performance since we can refer to the instance variable instead of calling the method again.

7.  If we want to prevent unauthenticated users from creating a new comment on a post, what should we do?

A. application_controller.rb
1) Method to determine if we have an authenticated user
2) Method to determine if they are logged in.

B. controller
1) include before action so that if user isn't authenticated or logged in, an error message will appear.

8.  Suppose we have the following table for tracking "likes" in our application. How can we make this table polymorphic? Note that the "user_id" foreign key is tracking who created the like.

id	user_id	photo_id	video_id	post_id
1	4		12	
2	7			3
3	2	6		

id  user_id  likeable_type  likeable_id
1    4         video            12
2    7         post              3
3    2         photo            6


9.  How do we set up polymorphic associations at the model layer? Give example for the polymorphic model (eg, Vote) as well as an example parent model (the model on the 1 side, eg, Post).

class Vote < ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :voteable, polymorphic: true
end

class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_many :votes, as: :voteable
end

10.  What is an ERD diagram, and why do we need it?

Entity-Relatioship Diagram to outline before development.
